### Introduction
This repository contains 112 simple text files, one for each of the 112 scientific methods for self-transformation described in [Vigyan Bhairav Tantra](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vij%C3%B1%C4%81na_Bhairava_Tantra). It then uses [this repository's Issues Section](https://github.com/Aytwit-Engineering/112_scientific_methods/issues) to tag each method with a variety of labels. This makes it easier to find which method(s) may be best for you, and offers a way to foster a discussion about people's personal experience, what works, what doesn't. Tips, tricks, etc.


### Hypothesis
Every scientific inquiry begins with a falsifiable hypothesis. Or at least this is the definition of science for this project. Many fields are called science nowadays but they aren't necessarily 100% based on falsifiable hypotheses. Many fields are closer to 0%, where they may in fact be more like engineering, or pattern recognition, or even a religion or intentional scam to defraud a public who don't practice science themselves. The falsifiable hypothesis for this project is: `Perform one or more of these methods and you will be transformed`. Big statement! And it's falsifiable simply by practicing the methods. The key is practice. Performance happens after practice. For most people the hypothesis will be IMMEDIATELY falsified, if they even get to trying these methods. They will try a method or two, confirm that nothing has happened to them, and disregard it all as nonsense. But think about it: if I give you methods to become a championship boxer, do you think they'll work immediately? Even incredibly simple methods like turning flour into bread can take years to perfect, nevermind fundamentally transforming yourself. 

This is where faith comes in. Faith?!? Mixing science and faith? Nonsense! But if you consider this deeply, faith is a basic requirement for science. Let's say I bring a cake over to your party. It's delicious, everyone loves it. You ask me for the recipe, the SCIENCE behind the cake. I give it to you. You then try and try but can't replicate my science. I have given you a hypothesis and you have falsified it, or have you? Maybe I lied and bought it from a store or something. But most people would assume they're missing something obvious in the recipe, or lacking a required skill, or perhaps there is a misunderstanding in the wording. You have FAITH that the science behind the making of the cake is sound, you just need more practice and perhaps some additional guidance.

This is where this project fits in. This project is meant to bolster your faith in these methods so that you give them proper practice and don't simply throw them out after early failures. Because instead of making a cake, you're making YOU. And making you is not so easy. Simple perhaps, but not easy. Faith is required along with a truly scientific mind.

So `Practice one or more of these methods and you will be transformed`. But what does transformation mean? Look at it this way. There is an Innuit who has never seen water boiling. They know of fire but have never used it to boil water because they never light more than a tiny flame. I can give them a scientific method, along with equipment, to boil water. I can describe the result of BOILING using many words, but until they witness it, they don't know what boiling means. And even the idea of boiling water is misleading. It's not the water boiling, but rather the water being slowly transformed into another state of being and temporarily disturbing the non-transformed water in its path. Eventually all the water disappears.

You don't know what transformation means because you have never experienced it. This again requires faith.


### Personal Background
I started investigating this whole "meditation" thing in 2012 after becoming a father. I felt like I had to get my shit together and I kept hearing about meditation on podcasts and blogs, how everyone should do it in order to function at their best. My first experiences were with an app called [Headspace](https://www.headspace.com/), the [Wim Hof Method](https://www.wimhofmethod.com/), and Yoga videos on YouTube, particularly [Yoga With Adriene](https://www.youtube.com/user/yogawithadriene). Headspace starts with simple 10-minute exercises where you count to 10 repeatedly, watch your breath, place attention on various parts of the body, and then some more advanced practices from there. Wim Hof is centered on a particular deep breathing method along with cold exposure. Yoga, practiced as originally intended, is not an exercise or even stretching, but a physical meditation that paradoxically prepares the body for stillness. In hindsight all of these were ways to prepare for the 112 methods discussed in this project, as far as my experience goes. Think of even the most simple scientific method from science class, like boiling water. You can describe it in a few words, but if you start from nothing, you take for granted the skills and technology and even the space and time needed to accomplish it.

Before I came across the 112 methods, I practiced the aformentioned preparatory methods for many years and branched out to other methods from other traditions and teachers. I also experimented with mind altering substances like coffee, alcohol, weed, nicotine, mushrooms and acid. Coffee and alcohol may be surprising inclusions on this list but even these common substances have important lessons to teach. In hindsight there are better ways to learn those lessons, but you take what you can get!

From my very earliest investigations, I was always curious: how many different methods are there to meditate? Everyone seems to have their own method, their own app, their own YouTube series. What method or methods are right for me? Are there infinite possibilities or only a few? Are some of these methods bullshit?

Regardless of my confusion and skepticism, clearly there were benefits, whatever I was doing. I became physically stronger and more flexible, more durable. I healed quicker and could push my body further. I picked up skills faster. Amazing ideas and insights would come to me, sometimes in trickles, sometimes in floods. I could see through bullshit that I always thought was real. I could distance myself from emotions more easily. Not just suppression, but like observing emotions as if they were happening to an actor in a movie. This was all great but also very uncomfortable, very disturbing. I could see clearly that the more disciplined I was, the more I practiced, the greater the effects. That's a lot of responsibility! It's easier to stay average, believe me. If I needed to be at my best for a job interview, or a competition, or get out of a slump, I could just ramp up y practice of some of these methods and I was good to go. Like I was popping a pill.

But wait! I was trying to get away from popping pills! Or at least that's what I discovered along the way. I didn't want to simply be BETTER. Better is just a temporary reprieve. Then you have to be even more better to keep the ride going. Athletic champions will tell you of the intense depression that comes after achieving their goals. Many of them spin out of control with addictions and partying and whatnot in an attempt to cope.


### How To Use This Resource
[This repository's Issues Section](https://github.com/Aytwit-Engineering/112_scientific_methods/issues) is the main point of entry. From here you can search through the methods, [filter the methods by labels](https://github.com/Aytwit-Engineering/112_scientific_methods/labels), and even discuss individual methods with people from all around the world.

[Treatises on each the method](https://github.com/Aytwit-Engineering/112_scientific_methods/tree/main/methods) can be read through in 


### Preparation
Any scientific method is actually composed of an infinite number of unmentioned methods. Take for example boiling water. As simple as can be. But what about the container? What about the heating element? The methods for producing metal and heat are very difficult. We take them for granted in the modern world and say "Take pot, fill with water, put on stovetop." But go tell a caveman to boil water. Centuries of scientific inquiry by entire societies are required before you can tell the average person a method for boiling water in one sentence.

Similary, these 112 methods look absurdly simple, but really they are assuming much preparation that modern man doesn't have, just like a caveman doesn't have a stove and a pot. Before these methods are performable you will need cleansing. Clean up your diet, eat less food, all organic, fast, take cold showers, practice yoga, remove synthetic chemicals from your life, use products with fewer, more natural ingredients, stop taking drugs and medications, exercise more, sweat, get out of cities, get off your computer. In a word: SIMPLIFY. This section is hard to write because entire books can be written about all the ways that modern man has to go back to its roots. As far as preparation here, it's not so much things you should DO, but things you should STOP doing. The preparation is incredibly simple, but also incredibly difficult because society has made you almost compeltely dependent (or rather you've allowed it to). Easy and simple do not mean the same thing. Something can be simple yet incredibly difficult, for example digging a hole.


### Why Exactly 112 Methods?
This is confusing, and still isn't clear to me. For example some particular methods like XXX appear to describe a few distinct submethods. The best way to think about it is more like 112 *paths* to a destination. If you're going down a particular path in the woods, you can crawl, walk, run, skip, whatever. So within each method there is an infinite number of possible variations. Just like if I give you a method to turn flour into a particular type of bread, there are infinite little variations you could make and still arrive at the intended bread.

Another way to think about this is like a move in a martial art. Let's say an [armbar in grappling arts(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Armlock#Armbar). There are infinitely many little variations on an armbar. Sometimes the variations are big enough that a separate name is given for an armbar "method". Many of the individual armbar methods might share some fundementals, some might not.

Supposedly humans have 114 chakra points, 112 of which are located in the physical body. If that's the case then I'm sure there is a deep relationship with these methods.


### Which Method Is Right For You?
This is like asking which sport is right for you. Try a bunch of sports and see which one you enjoy, or challenges you, or that you find rewarding in some way. If you're a tall, lean person who can jump high with good hand-eye coordination, you might try basketball first, because you're already physically suited to it. But that doesn't mean it's necessarily a good sport for you, even if you become good at it.

So you have to put the work in, do the mining, most likely. It may take you years. Or it may be instant, love at first sight. Exploration with an open, playful mind will be to your benefit. If you take this journey seriously then you won't get anywhere.


### How Will I Know It's Working?
You will at first be disturbed. If you've used any kind of serious mind-altering substance, even alchohol, then you may be familiar with the "tipping point" between being sober and being fully affected by the substance. Especially if you're new to the substance and you realize you're about to go for a ride that you've never experienced before. It's like being at the top of the first section of a rollercoaster after the slow ratcheting up. It's exciting at first, but only for a brief instant.Then fear and anxiety of the unknown follow soon after.

Or think about travelling to a completely foreign country. Not just as a tourist, but with intention of staying there for a long time. At first there is novelty, excitement, both for you and the people of that country. But after a few weeks there is simply discomfort. You don't speak the language. Your cultural blunders stop being cute. You're used to living in the country yet you're not part of it. You're an outsider, between worlds. Every little social interaction which was effortless, familiar, in your home country, can now occupy your entire day with anxious thought.

Sounds fun right? But the point is that there is a new experience on the other side. The possibility of transformation. It's not a certainty, but it IS a possibility.

This new experience can have physical symptoms if you stick with it. When you start to "get it" you may yawn when you really hit the method. You may also be able to feel a rush of energy go up through your body, through the top of your head. This might be kundalini, I don't know.


### Other Resources
This project is based on the approaches popularized by Osho to teach these methods. A method for teaching a method, if you will. See [https://www.osho.com](https://www.osho.com) for much more. Osho approaches these methods from a very scientific and logical perspective, which is needed in today's left-brain world. Many other so-called gurus, both past and present, teach and explain these very same methods in ways that don't resonate with an "educated" person, so they sound like nonsense. Even Jesus Christ touched on many of these methods in his teachings, but the Bible, through many mistranslations and intentional deceptions, has watered Christ's words down into philosophies and ideals, and not emphasized them as practicable methods. This emphasis is very important. Otherwise sayings like "Judge not, that ye be not judged" read like commandments that foster guilt and self-loathing and thus *more judgement*. How can you stop judging? You can't. Not directly. Not through suppression. A state of complete non-judgement is the *result* of a method, not the method itself. Turn "Judge not, that ye be not judged" into a method and everything changes. [Read more here](XXX).

Methods are great, but they are worthless if they cannot be transmitted properly. Successful transmission requires a compatible sender and receiver. If there is a signal mismatch between the two then transmission cannot occur. It's like a sending a message to someone. I can send it by mail, by pigeon, by morse code, by phone, by email, etc. Hundreds of ways. But the protocol must be established and open, and we must speak the same language, otherwise I'm just sending the message into the void. So this project is an attempt to open a communication channel with a certain type of very logical and skeptical scientific mind.

Every so-called sage, guru, saint, prophet, whatever, has attempted to transmit one or more of these methods to their students. So if you study these methods in their entirety you will start to see how they are the scientific root of every religion, every spiritual practice, every ritual, even every addiction. Addiction is the unconcious practice of these methods. They are like the raw ingredients in spiritual recipes that then turn into shallow, robotic rituals and sermons over time as the original emphasis on *methods* is lost.

